[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neo.com
I'm your host Dylan Grabowski in this
episode of the smart economy podcast we
were joined by Roland grous the director
of product at agoric in this episode we
spoke about building a chain and smart
contract platform specifically for
JavaScript developers how agoric
orchestration focuses on cross-chain
interoperability both within the cosmos
interchain and outside of it Lessons
Learned and attracting new Builders how
metamask leveraged a goric hardened JS
toolkit to build snaps and so much more
just a reminder nothing said in this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens and that nothing should be
taken as Financial advice the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in this
or any given episode and you can check
out the disclaimer on the Neo news today
web page for more information I really
enjoyed this conversation with Roland
and I hope you enjoy it too hey everyone
welcome to the smart economy podcast
today we're joined by Roland grous the
director of product at agoric a smart
contract platform that is really making
it easier for users to use blockchain
networks how's it going Roland uh it's
going great thanks for having me on yeah
um super excited to have you uh this is
one of the first kind of projects that I
saw uh one of your folks I saw Dean the
CEO speaking on stage at Adam Den Adam
Denver we were just talking about this
and after I saw him speak I was like oh
my gosh I need to speak with this
project so I'm really excited to be able
to chat with you today and to kind of
give listeners a kind of holistic uh
10,000 foot approach or or understanding
of what agoric is let's just kind of
jump in with a lead question
and I want to ask about chain
abstraction which is something that Dean
really hammered home on so what is chain
abstraction how does it unite fragmented
liquidity how does it create a clear
entry point into the ecosystem and how
does It ultimately make the end users
experience frictionless yeah um and so
I'll start with what is it um and it it
really at a high level chain abstraction
is it is how we get from the current
world of crypto which is sort of limited
in its users Limited in its use cases to
really the mainstream right um it is how
you start to have applications that
appeal to mainstream users because they
don't have to know what's happening
underneath and you know if if you're a
crypto user these days and you you're
trying to move cross train um there's
lots of bridging front ends there's lots
of manual steps you have to do to move
your assets around and to change
positions as as you need um I'm a user
too I I deal with this myself and it's
the sort of thing that requires a ton of
implicit knowledge about how the
underlying systems work what risks
you're taking all that stuff and it just
frankly it's a barrier that the the
mainstream is never going to cross um
and so chain abstraction is how we get
to a place where developers can build
applications that allow users to not
have to care right you know you're
you're always going to have to make
different risk assumptions uh depending
on what chain you're using or what
assets you're holding uh but there's a
limit to how much you can ask users to
learn on their own and what they're
going to want in the aggregate is um
developers or intermediaries to sort of
make some of those choices for them and
so they're they end up trusting those
those developers and those applications
to do those kinds of those kinds of
actions so the goal then is to unite
fragmented liquidity right so right now
if you've got a a lending protocol on
salana and you want to use etherium
assets there that's actually a pretty
difficult process to you know if you can
do it at all you're you're probably
bridging East over Wormhole and then
you've got Wormhole East and how do you
transfer that to the the asset that you
actually want the go is to be able to
build applications that do that for the
user unite fragmented liquidity allow
new developers coming into the space to
say okay I'm going to deploy an
application in this case on agoric and
I'm going to be able to reach liquidity
on ethereum liquidity on salana
liquidity across the cosmos ecosystem
just as easily as I would if I were
deployed natively on that chain and
there you know there may be some some
delays in the transfer and things like
that but it's the sort of choices that
we give developers in order to build
those those more uh interesting and
solid applications right yeah because if
I am an art enjoyer and I'm brought into
the blockchain crypto space because of
nfts I don't really care if I'm buying
it on ethereum well I probably do
because I'm spending $80 in transaction
fees to do that but I don't care if I'm
buying it on stargaze or some nft
platform on on um salana or anything
like that so I guess uh the real
question then is is how difficult is it
as these new chains become more of a
staying force in the broader block CH
space uh for example a year ago salana
would have been written off as dead and
maybe your agoric devs uh maybe dropped
the not dro the ball but stopped
focusing so much on providing
interoperability with that chain so how
does the growth in and blockchain
networks I mean we saw like SOI Flo all
these new new networks launch how do you
guys kind of keep your finger on the
pulse when you have this this asset but
then you have these growing chains and
growing ecosystems yeah uh so that's a
great question and actually I might
start with the the first thing you said
which I think some of your listeners
might think isn't true now which is that
you don't care what chain the the nft is
on I actually think right now most users
do care but the case that we want to
make and what I believe is that that
cannot and will not be true in five
years right right now the primary the
primary nft buyers are people that are
locked into a given ecosystem and like
you know we most of us here probably
listening have have come down the crypto
Rabbit Hole a certain way like I bought
ethereum in in 2016 2017 and and became
aware of everything that was deployed on
ethereum and because I held that asset I
was very interested in those things
right and so I might have been more
likely to buy an nft on East um that's
not going to be you know as we see these
protocols and and applications deployed
to the mainstream that's not going to be
how most people onboard into crypto
anymore it's going to be through like
Starbucks or something like that right
and and again you bad example they
recently had a failed failed project
there but like I I I truly think that
that is where this has to this has to go
and so in those cases with those kinds
of users they won't care and and what
they're going to care about is okay I
have this asset how can I easily access
it how can I do the sorts of native
crypto things that I need to do to hold
it and move it around and then if I want
to sell it how do I sell it and um
Bayman not even care if that that sale
is happening on um a particular
Marketplace that that might get
aggregated for them as well um and so
that's that's the direction that this
needs to go in and and so I think the
important question there is the the
point there is that it's hard right it
is hard to keep a finger on the pulse of
everything that's happening in crypto
and um you know I think a lot of people
that have been in the space since like
2019 or earlier used to be able to know
everything that was happening you know
if there was a new deployment you kind
of knew right you knew an l a new L1 was
launching you knew about its consensus
mechanism it was be able you were able
to kind of keep all that in your head
that's just not true anymore I'm inan
the space full-time and it's it's my job
to keep up to date with things and it's
still hard and you know the question is
not how will developers do it the
question is how would we expect users to
do it and how would we expect sort of
mainstream people coming in that don't
have any experience doing this to be
able to sort of make what is effectively
a venture bet on on an ecosystem and be
locked in there right um and so I I
think the the goal here is to say as as
specialists in this space and it may not
it it likely isn't the aor platform
itself the aor platform would enable
connections anywhere but it would be the
builders on top of the agoric platform
that are specialists in the space that
they are trying to build for they are
the ones that can keep their finger on
the pulse of things um and you know from
this perspective as just as an example
there like I was very I was in arguments
with people about salana not being dead
a year ago right and and it's because if
you're focused on that kind of thing you
can track like oh I actually see a ton
of activity here and the narrative that
seems to be pervasive in the market is
just not accurate um and so as we think
about building this out from the agor
side it really is how do we prioritize
the connections that matter um and then
get to the long taale of connections
over time and some of them we get for
free right as as a a chain that's
natively connected to IBC it's very easy
to connect to every Cosmos chain as IVC
expands to ethereum you know via
composable Finance or via Union then we
can use that um there's there's also
efforts to expand it to thalana there
are several other transport layers that
will that will move move and so um we're
targeting the most bank for the buck as
we as we build out our our connections
but that process actually should be
rather straightforward and then it's a
matter of maintaining it from the
platform side awesome I can't wait to
delve more into chain abstraction and
interoperability uh but I do want to
kind of take a step back and and you
gave a little hint at this in in your
answer um I just kind of want to hear a
little bit about your blockchain and
crypto Genesis is it 2016 2017 that you
bought your first eth and started paying
attention or did you hear about the
Bitcoin white paper in 2011 and then
ignore everything for another five years
uh yeah so I was in um in college uh and
you know let's just say I was in college
before Bitcoin was launched uh if that
dates me a little bit um I was I you
know I played a lot of online poker um
and a bunch of the guys I lived with
ended up playing online poker
professionally they were they were far
better than me to be very clear uh but
you know because I lived with them I I
was doing it on much much lower stakes
and so I was sort of like Prime
positioned to hear about Bitcoin as it
was launched uh because poker had it
Black Friday and you know I had I had
folks moved from where they were living
in Virginia to Australia so they could
keep playing that sort of thing and um I
was aware of Bitcoin and just did
nothing about it um and then I was at
MIT Sloan in
2013 um and you know a few prominent
current crypto folks were were part of
the class there um Milton deir sent me
an email with like here's all this stuff
you should read on on bitcoin and side
chains never open that email um you know
so I I had a bunch of fumbles here and
then um as ethereum was launching uh my
tech lead at the time I was working at a
startup and I was doing I was product
manager and um it was me and a tech lead
trying to build out a new product and
was you know BB saps kind of stuff but
he was he'd been in Bitcoin for a while
and he was just a huge EAD and so we we
went out for Drs and he told me all
about ethereum and I was like okay I'm
interested in this as an investment
asset and um so I decided to buy it but
I'd had too many drinks and like
couldn't fig figure out coinbase when I
got home and thought well just do it
tomorrow didn't do that um and so then 5
months later I ended up finally buy an
ethereum like 5x Tire um and and you
know for my I think a lot of people sort
of go through the same pathway as like
you buy something and then you do the
research to figure out what it was you
bought and then you then you go down the
rabbit hole and so that's what happened
to me also um and uh as a as a product
manager what I could see during the the
Ico boom which is around the time I was
getting in was it was super fun to kind
of play with it but I didn't see
anything I could contribute to
professionally yet you know I wasn't a
cryptographer I wasn't an engineer with
the kind of experience that could build
these things I didn't want to sell
something that seemed like vaporware and
so um I mostly held off until late 2019
or early 2020 when I finally I saw
applications that let you connect with
Madam mask and I was like oh that that
is something that as a product person I
understand I know how I would build
these things and this is something
that's like 10xs better than I see in my
financial life you know at the same time
I'm like out trying to buy a condo in in
um in Sommerville mass and it's like I'm
dealing with wiring money and like you
know I got married and had a bunch of
problems like depositing checks that we
had gotten because they had both of our
names on them like that that sort of
thing just like the dichotomy between
that and what I was doing in crypto was
just so wild that it was like I this is
what I have to do professionally forever
and so that's that was around 2020 um I
ended up finding a goric and that you
know I've stayed ever since yeah that's
incredible that so I got into the space
in the 2017 Ico boom era as well um but
I came in as a content creator so I was
writing about projects that were
building on this uh L1 that was an
ecosystem that I worked within the Neo
ecosystem you might remember back in
those days Chinese ethereum I remember
yeah the ethereum killer uh Neo's still
here but that being said I did Cover
about 30 projects that IED and I covered
all of their obituaries afterwards
because the 2017 to 2020 era there
really was nothing going on with
blockchain you could sell a white paper
you could sell some tokens but where was
the ability for me to to verify my
identity on chain or to do any sort of
simple thing like a token swap that
didn't come around until the time that
you kind of entered the space so I think
something that also lends to the value
that you bring to agoric and to the
broader blockchain and crypto space in
general is your resume is pretty
extensive I studied interdisciplinary
social sciences and undergrad
because I couldn't pick one thing to
focus on so I had to focus on one thing
that focused on 10 things so in your
background you had a variety of
different positions data analyst
co-founder product manager Venture
fellow devell and a variety of different
verticals private Equity military supply
chain medical Venture Capital Cloud
systems so what can you share a little
bit about your professional Arc and
maybe maybe because you you kind of did
um explore so many different verticals
and types of positions maybe you can
link all them together to what was the
driving force that United all of those
positions and why you wanted to work in
those spaces what was the thing that
connected you to each job you had yeah
uh so that's a interesting question so
um I was an econ degree undergrad and I
I took econ economics as sort of a fifth
class my my freshman year and I just
loved it and I realized I realized that
I was better at it than my than other
people it was just like I was I I got
things faster than my friends were it's
like that was a sign like okay maybe
this is something that I would do well
at and um I ended up going into
Consulting for private Equity after
undergrad in large part because I just
likeed learning things it was a way it
was a way to just not have to pick a
career necessarily and I could just you
know speedrun through Industries I
probably did 200 projects across like 40
Industries in in three or four years um
and I I saw a whole lot doing that but
it was you know I loved it but it burned
me out um and so I actually didn't at
that time I didn't know what I wanted I
I had never really had to pick anything
so you know similar to you and and I
actually think crypto especially early
on attracts a lot of cross-disciplinary
folks right it it sort of merges
computer science and economics and
governance and you know social sciences
and Community like there's a lot of
stuff that happens all at the same time
and you kind of have to be able to move
between those levels and I enjoyed that
in my Consulting career but I knew that
I there's something very unfulfilling
about uh having the product of your work
be a deck that you send to somebody that
can just like ignore it if they want to
right like they you know I know that I
spent weekends working on something that
went into somebody's email trash like
immediately and so um I really wanted to
to actually start my own company but I
kind of had fortunately had the
wherewith all to know that I like wasn't
was you know I was too young and I
didn't know what I was doing and so um I
I went to MIT Sloan for business school
not because I needed a business school
education necessarily like my econ
degree and my my Consulting experience
basically was that but what it let me do
was spend two years working on ideas and
figuring out how to how to actually
build something for real how to talk to
venture capitalists or or the kinds of
people I would need to talk to to to
actually be able to succeed in that
World um how to hire people you know all
all the stuff that I just didn't have
any experience doing um and to meet
other like-minded people um which I
think uniquely kind of exists in the MIT
Community um and then coming out of that
I I still didn't quite feel ready to
start my own thing I was I was working
on a startup for the whole last semester
there and um it was too far from revenue
too far from funding and so I ended up
joining as a a product manager to
someone else's startup and I realized
that product was a way that I could
scratch a lot of the itches that I had
for for building something real um
without necessarily having to start my
own company and and allowed me to kind
of learn more of the skills that I would
need to learn to to start my own company
eventually and so I I just kind of
likeed the product and I kept doing it
um and that was that was sort of the
through line since since business school
so since 2015 I've been doing usually a
PM working on a new product at a startup
that I've been at and that was obviously
true at agoric but the difference the
difference with agoric is that you know
instead of one product that we're
launching we're launching a chain and a
smart contract platform and we're doing
most of the design and development of
the in protocol which is a stable coin
launched on top and you know so we
probably were launching seven or eight
products depending on how you counted um
and that is still ongoing right you know
we're still we're still developing and
and reaching product Market f with with
our our platform and and that's very ex
setting so that's kind of the through
line is I you know I like being on the
edge and building new things and working
with the ambiguity that comes with that
cool yeah it sounds like um when you
started your career you were focusing on
one product at a time and and as we'll
get into in this conversation you're now
focusing on eight or more and I can't
wait to hear how you juggle managing all
of those um but I did want to just
really briefly uh touch upon this you've
kind of like left a little bit of a
breadcrumb trail that you live in the
Northeast and in your Twitter profile
you have the shield uh the stand with
crypto Shield um I got to fly out to DC
in December with coinbase to talk with
Colorado legislators because I'm based
out of Colorado um so I'm just curious
uh given your proximity to DC because
you're in the Northeast and your badge
do you have um any sort of affinity or
affiliation with Stan withth crypto are
you just a supporter of good crypto
legislation in the US I I so I would say
it's mostly the latter I'm a supporter
of good crypto legislation in the US I
think that the work there is probably
very hard and very important and
probably underappreciated in this space
um I grew up in the DC area and so I
don't I don't necessarily go back except
to to visit family but um that's
something that I could see myself
contributing more to once I get out of
this phase of my career where I'm I'm
just heads down all the time so yeah
that I'm actually really curious because
dating back to the transportation the
infrastructure bill in 2021 that was the
first time in the US that I felt working
in the blockchain space that maybe my
career is a little Rocky and and if I
want to keep working here there's a
world in five plus years where I might
have to move abroad in order to do so
similar to how your friends in college
had to move to Australia after the the
online poker Black Friday deal do you
feel any of that pressure with the
current wording and some of the negative
legislation that's that's being proposed
are you concerned about your future of
building in blockchain here in the US or
is that just kind of noise it's not
noise it definitely um I I'm guessing
most folks that are working at projects
like me that are us-based um feel this
too it it certainly I have days where it
actually drags on me quite a bit right
it can be very disheartening to to sort
of watch the government that you you
know probably mostly voted for like
seemingly Target your industry right and
seemingly sort of suggest that you're
doing something nefarious or criminal
when you know what I think I'm doing is
actually like highly aligned with
American values and and all that stuff
right and and so that definitely does
drag on me um I I really do I respect a
lot of the work that most of the you
know core lobbyists from the the the
crypto industry do and and the the kinds
of things that they put out on Twitter
to sort of explain what's going on my
sense of this over time is that largely
there's been a lot of pretty negative
stuff proposed that mostly has not made
it um and and I think that there are
some champions in both parties and and
so again I I'm I mostly I can't spend
too much time thinking about it because
thinking about it is it's it's a huge
distraction so far it feels like we've
avoided the worst um I'm certainly not
taking that for granted though you know
I think you kind of mentioned my friends
moving abroad like that was easy at 22
um I'm a little older now I've got a
family and so you know I do live 90
minutes from the Canadian border but um
I I think we're probably not moving
anytime soon so cool yeah I appreciate
that um just trying to to raise
awareness in any way possible because uh
52 million Americans do hold crypto and
there's this asset that everybody holds
but um it sometimes it feels like we're
An Enemy of the State but we don't have
to really belabor that point um to kind
of bring us back to the conversation
I'll I'll lob you softball um I'm almost
positive you're gonna have a great
answer for um do you or does agoric have
a multi-chain thesis for the future and
and is there a world where there are
multiple different blockchains
blockchain l1's blockchain l2s um that
we have to kind of be able to
interoperate between yeah and and I
think at the end of the day that's
that's core to a gor's thesis and um it
also aligns with why goric chose the
kmos ecosystem when it did which was
before I joined but it was sort of the
alignment of those values right that
blockchains there is there is you know
back in 2020 I think most most people in
the industry seem to believe that there
would just be one blockchain and it and
you know was a win or take all it would
be ethereum or it would be somebody else
and that's where all value and all
activity would occur and that just
fortunately that that that mindset has
kind of left the market for the most
part and I think it's probably accepted
wisdom at this point that there will be
a large number of blockchains how many
is is unclear um but there are
trade-offs at all levels of blockchain
design and so it doesn't make sense for
one one chain to do literally everything
um and so that's that's the world that
that agoric is building towards and so
when we talk about um you asked earlier
about chain abstraction and what that
was um AG gor's contribution there is
what we are calling orchestration and
and our our view that is how developers
will build for chain abstraction chain
abstraction is a goal it is something
that we want to give to users as an
experience but the question is how do
you do that and as a developer the way
you do that is you build on a chain you
you bring your business logic to a chain
that allows you to natively reach across
chain and um execute actions that take
multiple blocks very seamlessly um and I
can go into more detail there about sort
of how that works and why that's
important but that is that is where
agoric is leaning into and it's part
it's been part of our our check sack
forever you know the the whole design of
the agoric virtual machine and um and
all the work that we've done has has
always had this within it but what we
realized recently is that it is actually
critical for multichain development and
something that is hard to replicate
elsewhere or you know in in certain
cases impossible and so um that is the
world that we're building towards we see
the explosion of l2s chain LS app chains
that you know that's going to keep
happening you know many chains will grow
and die um but as a developer you're
going to need to be able to access them
and so that's that's what we're building
for yeah and before we delve into
orchestration which I definitely want to
cover um I do just kind of want to ask
why JavaScript why is aor doubling down
on JavaScript is this uh I think there's
something like 210 million developers
across the world and there's only a
handful of programming languages that
have resounding popularity is Javascript
just simply one of these languages that
captures all of these traditional devs
or is it just like the toolkit and the
programming language that the founders
were most comfortable with um and and so
you'd have to ask them which came first
what I know is there's sort of two two
things that are important there one
JavaScript is the most used programming
language by far in the world and most
developers who you know Sugg who would
say that their primary language is
something else also know JavaScript
because they mostly have had to right
you know they've had to do a front end
at some point or they they've had to
learn node they've had to they've had to
deal with JavaScript at some point in
their career um and there are a large
large large number of developers who for
JavaScript is the primary language and
it dwarfs the existing crypto ecosystem
so that that is sort of like point one
for why a goric chose JavaScript um
point and and I think I think the choice
of JavaScript preceded this but um our
many of the core Folks at agoric have
been working very hard at the JavaScript
standards committee for a long time in
cases decades um to kind of bring the
kinds of security capabilities into the
JavaScript standard um that are needed
in order to to have a deterministic
smart contract language and so you know
one of the complaints we often hear from
fooks that he where JavaScript is like
well why how could you possibly have a
smart Contracting language in JavaScript
it's so insecure that's actually not
true and uh JavaScript within it has the
ability to be deterministic and highly
highly uh securable uh and that's what
we've done on our end with with Harden
JS in in concert with a bunch of other
folks um but within it it has the
capability to be this actually great
modularized smart Contracting language
and and so that's what agoric is working
with um and so that that's sort of the
core of it right our our expectation is
and frankly what we found is that we
often spend a of time talking about our
Tech and our differentiators and things
like that and what new developers hear
is oh this is the Java this is
Javascript we should go build there um
and so that's it is it does become a
really important point you know if you
are working in a place where you're
primarily using node or something like
that and you have an an idea for
decentralized application you could take
six months off to learn solidity or you
can just build in the language you're
already familiar with and comfortable
with and use all your same tools and
that's what we that's what we're
offering yeah I'm very much a proponent
of go to where the developers are and
and give them support in the languages
they're most familiar with um so this
might not be a question you're the best
suited to answer because you're so
product facing but do you see that you
have folks Just landing in agoric land
because they do come from JavaScript and
they're just like this is the most
robust um ecosystem and robust tooling
that's available so I want to learn
blockchain and this is where my SEO
search sent me do do you kind of get a
sense of that or is it like blockchain
natives that are coming around and like
oh I don't want to use solid anymore I
want to use JavaScript do you have a
sense for what that's like yeah um and
and so this ends up being an important
question as as a goric scales um we we
absolutely have some of the former where
where people find us because they are
looking for a JavaScript smart
Contracting you know chain in a place
where they can deploy um when we talk
about orchestration and chain
abstraction the early audience for that
is primarily people that already see the
problems and those people are crypto
native and so um that that story is not
necessarily a story for the mainstream
yet although it is important for them
and and I think you know there's there's
a clear way to to make that case to a
mainstream developer coming in um but
our beach head so to speak is going to
be crypto developers that see the ux
problems with doing multi-chain things
or or see an opportunity to stitch
together capabilities or athlets from
two different chains um and realize that
the fastest and best place to build that
is going to be agoric and so that's who
we're that's who we're focused on for
now um but I think that will be
different in a year as as sort of more
of those more of the you know we we've
kind of brought in more of those crypto
native folks and start turning our
attention more to you know going to
JavaScript conferences SP spending more
time in the JavaScript Community yeah I
know like algorand is doubling down on
um language communities now and not
necessarily going to like crypto
conferences so I think this is proba a
theme we're going to see uh emerging
over the next year or two um to double
down on that are your developers coming
from like interchain land or are they
just like coming from evm land and
they're fed up with what's going on over
there and they're they're ready for
Change and ready for something new like
IBC yeah um what I've seen mostly is
that if you've deployed a project
somewhere in evm land you're kind of
unlikely to you're kind of unlikely to
move away from that um that's not that's
not universally true but I don't expect
that we're going to draw a lot of
developers that have deployed projects
where we may draw developers from is
there's a whole lot of entrepreneurial
developers that go out and try new techs
as and and want to build a crypto
application and probably have tried
something in evm already but but already
tied to something running in production
and you know so for example the the
Calypso team that is um they are
building out what's going to be sort of
one of the first reference applications
of um of orchestration on right now
they've done all sorts stuff um and but
they ended up getting sort of through a
bounty that a goric put out they got
connected here saw the tech and was like
oh this is this is the place where we
can build the thing we wanted to build
um and that's what I expect to see is
what you know there's a lot of
developers kind of floating around in
the ecosystem that don't have something
deployed in production um have ideas
occasionally explore ideas and are going
to find that agor is the best place to
actually deploy some of the things they
want to do um and so that's sort of
where we're starting um and where we are
we are focused right now we may find
that as orchestration picks up seam you
know existing large evm projects find a
use case for it um my expectation though
is that's that it's going to be mostly
people with new ideas yeah so I had um
Austin federa from the salana foundation
on in Q4 last year and a point that he
brought up was that at breakpoint which
is sana's like main conference every
year that last year in 2020 three they
were noticing a lot of the developers
that were at breakpoint were folks who
had never built on bitcoin and had never
built on etherium before but they were
building on salana for the first time I
only bring that up just to highlight the
fact that we're now getting into a place
as a blockchain industry where we have
multiple ecosystems that people can
choose to build in and now we're getting
a new wave of developers who've never
even been tarnished by Bitcoin or evm
and they're open to A Whole New World of
um blockchains and smart contract
platforms that are out there so it seems
like agoric is really primed to be able
to capture all these folks um I'm a
cosmos fan so I'm just going to put on
my uh adversarial hat for a quick second
that's very Cosmos of
you I feel like cosmos had a lot of easy
attention on like crypto Twitter in 2020
21 22 you know things with airdrops and
it was just so easy to like install a
Kepler wallet and to interact with your
Ledger and it was kind of hyped back
then but after the most recent 20202
2023 bare Market um you look on crypto
Twitter and you don't necessarily see so
much IBC interchain Cosmos talk but when
you go to like Adam Denver 2 and you see
this lineup of folks that are there
really solid projects really smart
people really cool things that are being
built there so maybe it's just a part of
the market cycle I don't know what but
what is it about the cosmos ecosystem to
you that's really exciting and engaging
right now that you think is attracting
new folks that maybe like the Traders on
crypto Twitter still haven't like caught
on to yet and started acting as like a
megaphone for exciting like hodlers and
normies in Cosmos again sure um so I
have a lot of thoughts there uh I I want
to start with again sort of something
you said ear earlier on um and that I
think is important so so you were
talking about developers being able to
build in multiple ecosystems and and I
think that what has been true for quite
a while but very soon is not going to be
true and again this this speaks to the
world that agor is building for is you
had a lot of Walkin like part of the
reason that ethereum is the default
choice for people to build or polygon
might be the default choice is that it's
actually really it has been hard to like
what you care about when you're building
especially a a project that needs assets
on board like a D5 project or something
like that is you care about the
liquidity that you can reach like what
users can you easily on board that will
bring their money to your project and
that has been you've basically been
choosing chains by that metric and so
when you see salana starting to get a a
better ecosystem in large part it was
because the asset values had increased
and suddenly now you've got more assets
that are available to new projects and
so as a developer it's like okay well
now I can build here because it's easy
to onboard those users and I never
actually wanted build on Ethan just like
it was the only choice for me um the
world that aor is building for is the
world in which bridging those assets in
orchestr orchestrating those assets
across those multiple chains is actually
easy and so all of a sudden you can
build an agoric application that reaches
assets on ethereum reaches assets on
salana and so that that I think ends up
being an important trajectory for where
developers go and how they choose where
to build um it's you know up until now
it really has been less of a tech choice
and more of an asset Choice as we start
looking at like why did Cosmos fail to
get the kind of attention that it could
have gotten um I think there's a lot of
like contingent history in that like and
again I I've been working in Cosmos and
so this has been very on my mind you
know a lot of a lot of I'm aware of
pretty much everything that's happening
in Cosmos I may hold assets of various
Cosmos projects like I'm I'm very you
know tuned into the the cosmos attention
level in the 20121 cycle Cosmos was
basically getting a bid after November
it was after the peak
um Adam and osmosis hit their piece and
they then that got cut off by the whole
cycle ending right it was F it was sort
of like the the belief there was like oh
my God finally we are seeing retail
attention on the cosmos ecosystem and
then it just got shut down um and that
yeah well so this is prel Luda this is
this is like yeah this is like the FED
starting to to raise rates it's like oh
the whole Market is not going to take
and then lunatic and I think that it is
it's hard to overestimate
how traumatic that was for the cosmos
ecosystem like at the time you know we
we've been building and in protocols
deployed on goric it's an over
collateralized stable coin I still have
to tell people that it isn't Luna like
way way you know this is a makerd style
model it liquidates it's like completely
different than Luna but I still have to
go explain that because people are
terrified of a of an algorithmic stable
coin and um that lasted for quite a
while uh and you know I think zucky you
know prominent Cosmos developer to tons
of projects including agoric he sort of
famously tweeted out that cosmos had
about a year to figure its out or
we were we were toast this was like
three quarters of a year ago something
like that um and then what happened is
dydx need to Cosmos train and so you
know you kind of mentioned it's lacking
attention I'm gonna sort of push back on
that like Celestia is a cosmos chain
dydx is a cosmos chain Saga just
launched at five billion fully diluted
Dimension is at five or six fully
diluted like I I actually think the
opposite is happening where there is
quite a bit of attention but it's just
not necessarily directed at traditional
Cosmos Chains It's seeing the new
activity which is then going to Lo link
into you know absolutely osmosis is
going to benefit from that right like
the largest Cosmos deck is deck is going
to benefit from lots of large Cosmos
athlets coming in um IBC getting
connected to ethereum IBC getting
connected to Solana if it does um
hyperlane coming in and making those
connections easier you know it early in
late in 2021 through like 2022 it was
pretty hard to get assets into Cosmos um
you had to Bridge Over axar uh and then
you had liquidity challenges or you had
to literally depos you know go through
adom to a centralized exchange now
Circle ccdp you can do a usdc bridge for
a dollar from salana um regardless of
how many aets you're you're bridging uh
and that that completes in like 2
minutes those sorts of things are going
to make it very easy to onboard into
Cosmos and we're going to start to see a
lot of the kinds of Cosmos applications
that have always been good but haven't
necessarily had the assets to work with
to make them take off actually take off
um so you know I I'm I'm actually quite
bullish and quite excited um and and
there will be some Cosmos chains fail
like that's that's the whole point of
Cosmos is that that can happen and it
isn't traumatic for the whole ecosystem
yeah oh man that was a great response uh
thank you for pushing back uh I I do
agree like you do see dydx and that like
made major splashes and to see it become
an app chain as opposed to an L2 or or
migrate to an L2 or anything like that
um you do kind of see this traction
picking back up for Cosmos and like if
this was uh a different podcast I would
love to dig into the cosmos Hub and how
maybe Adam can benefit from this and and
what are the pros and cons of that but
let's try and keep it focused on agoric
and maybe just like the general
ecosystem and broadly how it can attract
folks into uh Cosmos and and therefore
for agoric you did mention um usdc
landing on one of the app chains and I'm
just curious because um I'm not sure if
IST was um uh incubated in house or if
it was a team that started building on a
goric and you guys just kind of gave
them support but how does having an is
is it algorithmically backed or is it
over collateralized the IST token it's
over collateralized um and and so it it
has a model that's similar to maker Dow
currently in the sense that it's um I
think there's five assets it currently
accepts that you can mint against which
are atom St atom um
persistences uh STK atom uh STA and St
Oso and so those are the Vault assets
that you can they're over collateralize
you can mint against them but it also
like maker has uh a parody stability
module which allows you to Mint IST
against certain approved other stable
coins in you know with with all with
individual mid limits and so you you can
use native usdc and axar usdc and
gravity usdc to mince IST up to a
certain approved risk limit by the um by
an external committee that was uh
elected to Mayers the economics of the
protocol so um I think your your implied
question was sort of how does that work
together with ist you know is usdc is it
a competitor is it yeah um I mean I
think it's both right like I you know we
were very we're friendly with the noble
team that is the op chain that that
brought USD native usdc to Cosmos um
Native usdc is really important for the
cosmos ecosystem but I at the same time
IST has certain characteristics that
might make it more attractive in certain
circumstances right and and I don't
think that there's going to I don't
think stable coins are win or take all I
think it's sort of like winner take most
and there likely will be a few
successful stable coins usdc has certain
properties it's centralized it's
controlled by Circle some people may or
may not like that um and it has certain
capabilities that Circle will allow and
and so this gets into a little bit of
orchestration here but um Circle has a
protocol called cctp which lets you
basically say I native USC on salana or
ethereum or you know several other
chains and I want it on Noble in the
cosmos ecosystem and so I make a
transaction on the the ethereum uh
blockchain which burned my usdc there
and then Circle will mint usdc on the
chain that I wanted which is a a very
useful kind of bridging activity um and
since you're trusting circle with your
uscc anyway way it's sort of you're not
really adding a whole lot of trust
assumptions um although they're smart
contract risk but what Circle won't do
is it won't say okay I'm going to Mint
it and then I want you to send it to
osmosis and make a trade you can't do
that right now and so you know when we
talk to a lot of the folks that are in
most of this is happening within Cosmos
when you talk to the folks that are
trying to push the multi-chain ecosystem
forward and so like skip protocol is a
big good example there they are blocked
with some of the things that they can do
because those capabilities don't exist
but what really easy on agoric is you
can launch a contract that says spin up
an address on the aor chain and when
that address receives assets do X where
X is something arbitrary and X could be
you know go swap on osmosis and then
take my position and lend it out on Umi
and borrow something against that and
then um send it to another chain like
all those things could happen without
signing an additional transaction on the
aore chain and so now all of a sudden we
add all these capabilities that wouldn't
exist otherwise interpr and IST can take
advantage of those natively so in
protocol can natively mint IST to
whatever chain you want to go to it can
you know as we start to link it with
orchestration um what I'm really excited
about is being able to say okay I've got
this exotic position somewhere else in
Cosmos like you could think of it as an
osmosis LP position or a dydx per or
something along those lines I'm actually
going to admit IST against that and if
that could be risk controlled by the
same economic committee and so the
protocol could reach across chain and
say all right you're you're going to
lock this LP position on the osmosis
chain you don't need to move it to a
goric and I'm going to see that that
happened and M IST directly to your
chain and so as a user you're you're
effectively not even leaving your chain
like the chain that you're operating on
or the app that you're operating on
those are the sorts of things that
interprotocol can do that will be just
difficult or kind of not in circle's
best interest right and so I think that
that's how these these different um
stable coins will coexist um IST will
also be demanded by folks that want a
little bit of a different risk profile
versus entirely being backed by Circle
you know that that will continue to
exist in this space and I'm one of those
people yeah and I do want to kind of
give a um for folks who are a little bit
skeptical of algorithmic or over
collateralized stable coins I do kind of
want to give a shout out to IST that the
majority of the basket of assets that
back it are also um yield generating
assets like atam staked atom you earn um
you earn these assets for staking them
and securing the network that they're
built to secure so there is um some kind
of like baked in economic models that
can ensure that there is a little bit
more stability or liquidity available to
um play the games that are necessary to
keep istd pegged at a dollar you um many
times throughout this conversation we've
brought up orchestration and I kind of
view it as the way that agoric uh uses
its tools to be able to seamlessly
connect other chains from within the
interchain um maybe you've already done
this but just for the benefit of the
listeners can you just explain like I'm
five what a gor's vision of
orchestration is and then maybe you can
also talk about how agoric smart
contracts enable multi-chain dap
communication leveraging orchest yeah
and and so the orchestration story and
so I'll do the first one explained like
I'm five and then I'll do the other one
with a little more technical detail um
the orchestration story is fundamentally
a story for developers right it is a
story for how do you build chain
abstracted applications and so what we
are launching there is a set of
orchestration apis which um allow you to
basically say Okay I want to interact
with the osmosis chain I'm gonna get
myself an object called osmosis and I'm
going to do and I'm highly simplifying
here I'm going to do osmosis. create
account and that will underneath the
hood do a bunch of complicated IBC stuff
to spin up an interchain account on the
osmosis chain but then as a developer
you don't have to deal with any of that
you're just sort of working with a set
of very clear apis for how to manage
those activities cross chain so that's
piece one the other piece is gets more
into the technical details of how agoric
operates but you can think of it as a
transaction on the agoric Chain May
trigger lots of other transactions
between contracts or across chains and
and wait for notifications that it
completed right that only requires is
one user transaction but the contract
itself can keep operating for um an
arbitrary amount of time so for example
you could sign a transaction on the aore
Chain using orchestration that says when
my OS so unbond my osmo and when it un
bonds sell it for usdc and then send my
usdc to Noble and it will wait you'll
sign that transaction it'll create the
unbond and then in 21 days when that
osmo unbond it will continue you don't
need to you don't need to set something
on your calendar need to do anything the
the the contract can do that for you and
that's the sort of thing that is missing
right now or sort of not easy to build
um anywhere else in the blockchain space
you know most of these other protocols
will kind of use like external oracles
or keeper networks to be like okay I I
set of a notification then I'll tickle
the contract for it to keep going that's
super complicated to to set up and
manage this is just you know when it
when it finishes un bonding go to the
next line on the contract um and so that
is the sort of thing that will enable a
whole capability that just isn't
possible right now um and so I think
I've Blended those answers I'm not sure
that I achieved expl like M5 but
hopefully hopefully you know that's
clear for both the development the
developer audience and anyone listening
that's not a developer you know what
we're really doing is enabling the kinds
of actions cross chain that just can't
happen right now like and the reason the
reason the cross chain ux is so bad and
so manual and difficult is is not
because developers are stupid it's
because they don't have the the tools to
build this stuff yet um and agoric will
have those tools for them when we launch
orchest so in this example um you were
using uh let's let's say I have an asset
on a certain app chain and I want to
unbond it and convert it to Circle um
for most of the app chains that I'm
familiar with the unbonding period is 21
days so as kind of the interchain grows
and new standards are implemented into
these new app chains what does the
complexity for a Gore orchestration look
like when maybe a new app chain wants
its unbonding period to be 14 days or 28
days and you start throwing in these
little changes how does that throw a
gorg for a loop um does it impact what
you guys are able to do is it modular in
a way that you can just update a line
and that will be able to address those
changes how do you kind of plan for the
future of um different kind of
parameters that new chains will operate
within yeah um and so for your specific
question the the answer is basically
yeah you can query query the parameters
of the chain you can get the in bonding
period right um the the more general
question is how does a goric stay up to
date with the wide range of chains that
launch some of those will require more
specific effort to build in capabilities
for whereas others will kind of all
operate within the same scope so a new
new Cosmos SDK chain that launches
probably is going to have most things
operating similarly to the existing ones
and you know the queries will look the
same um you know our belief is the
number of different types of of chains
that launch and different types of um
things that are different enough that
require unique effort is going to be
relatively small and so the API can get
updated to use them will also have um
the way we're thinking about this at
least right now is sort of two level one
we'll have some certain well-known
chains with with clear objects that you
can just request by name and then we'll
also have the generic ability to to
specify a chain yourself right and so
you can request an object that has the
characteristics that you put in and then
as the developer you know agoric hasn't
necessarily launched an upgrade to the
API yet to cover this new chain that
just launched yesterday or something
like that but you can just like put the
details in yourself on that object and
then do the requests as you need um it's
it's a little more manual but it will
still you'll still get all the benefits
of orchestration through that and the
ability to link actions together and to
compose cross chain together maybe this
is a spicy question I don't know um
where on the timeline is agoric kind of
vision for providing this for outside
the IBC interchain land like what about
like salana and ethereum and other l1s
that might pop up between now and 5
years from now Q2 so um our our in our
initial uh orchestration MVP launch is
focused within the cosmos ecosystem just
because it's the lowest Hing fruit um
but uh I I mentioned the Calypso uh
project that's launching on top they are
they are working with evm projects over
Axel already and so they that will be
covered in the apis but just like I I
just said around you can sort of specify
a chain as you need they're working with
a little bit lower level structures to
just be able to do that um we expect to
wrap that in the apis within Q2 um you
know we're in Q2 now um and we're
actively looking at the best way to
connect to Solana so there are a few
options right now um and we're
investigating all those um you know we
we sort of have a matrix of how do we
get to chain X and what capabilities can
we get from that chain which goes down
to like can we you know base case can we
send tokens but can we then do General
message passing can we get notifications
back that things have happened so
there's sort of like a whole engineering
Deep dive that we have to do for each
chain but um there's only as you kind of
mentioned there's a few relevant
ecosystems and that's where we're
starting yeah and so I guess it's just
where the users and I don't like to use
this word because it denotes you guys
are just chasing you know where the
money is but basically wherever the
noise is like right now it's really
noisy in salana there's a lot of mem
coins there there's a lot of people
trying it out maybe like my mom who
never even bought Bitcoin maybe she buys
salana like that's the point where we're
at in the cycle so how do you guys just
uh what how does a new ecosystem pop up
on your radar and kind of like perk your
ears and be like oh maybe we should
start looking into that yeah and so I
think my answer to that will evolve
frankly we haven't had to address that
yet right you know from my side it's we
were starting with with the cosmos
ecosystem there's a lot of you know from
my perspective there's a lot of pretty
obvious use cases that you could build
just hit back right um you could have a
um a yield aggregator for deposit usdc
or IST and get me the best yield across
multiple lending platforms um so we'll
start there it's obvious we need to
connect to the evm ecosystems so both
ethereum and the primary eel 2s um it's
obvious we need to connect to salana and
so those are the directions we're going
beyond that we'll sort of have to see
and it may be driven by demand from
developers you know I I I am of the
belief that the core driver for
developers is being able to access
assets and capabilities in different
places and so we may be unaware of
something that's happening on polka dot
or on an Avalanche subnet or something
like that and we may get a request for
that you know that's somewhere between
we basically get it for free and it's
like three days of work to to launch it
versus it might be multiple months of
effort um and so we'll sort of have to
play it by year as it as we go there but
I think the the amount of capability we
get just from the cosmos ethereum and
Salon ecosystems is giant yeah yeah cool
um I want to take a moment to show loric
Harden JavaScript architecture um super
cool uh last year metamask launched
snaps which allows third parties to
integrate features into the wallet that
can impact interoperability transaction
insights and notifications um so I kind
of want to just like let you go wild and
shill Harden javascripts architecture
right now uh maybe in order to do so I
could set you up could you share what
Snaps are and how metamask was able to
build snaps modeled directly off of this
hardend JavaScript yeah um and and so
snap we we've had a a long partnership
with metamask on in developing this and
they they've been a great partner in not
only sort of working with the hard
Harden JavaScript team um and and Folks
at a goric but also doing red teaming of
it you know testing testing things out
we there was a great session back in
2021 uh we're sort of going through that
metamask has been their their core
challenge is they are a browser
extension on on the user system and they
want to be permissionless and that we
they want new chains to be able to add
themselves to metamask and let you sign
but how do they do that without risking
the users other assets um and that is
ultimately what snaps is is is solving
for them which is you've got this
modular and contained thing that can get
added to metam Tas that doesn't risk
anything else and Harden JavaScript and
and I'm probably not the best one to to
speak to exactly how they do it or or
specifically where they brought Hardon
JS in but at at a high level what it
allowed them to do was model the risk of
the system and be clear through object
capabilities be clear about which parts
of the system get access to what and so
they can launch snaps in a in a modular
sort of plug-in type ecosystem for
metamask in a way that would have been
very difficult with without this um and
so they have a big project called lava
Moe which is um really just like a uh a
map of all of the capabilities and and
Authority that's given to anything
within the metam system and they're able
to to do that by using Harden JavaScript
awesome um we're running out of time so
we'll zoom out um I do just want to let
you know and and folks listening to this
that I wanted to talk about uh not just
IST but also the BL token and the token
architecture also Zoe framework and the
really cool escro uh services that are
built into that there are so many other
cool Parts about the agoric tech stack
that I would have loved to have Dig Dug
into maybe if this was a longer form pod
than we could have um so folks who are
listening to this please go check out
the architecture and look into those
things they're they're really cool um
but I want to zoom out and uh kind of
wrap up um talking about um building uh
the ecosystem out and one of the best
ways that I've found to build out an
ecosystem is to attract and lure
Builders and entrepreneurs something
that um has always done a pretty good
job at that in my opinion is giving away
money for people's work so can you share
a little bit about the agoric Bounty
program and maybe uh the success that
you've seen with a project or two that
have come out of that yeah um and and so
and I wish we were having this
conversation in two weeks because I
think there may be some announce Gates
um but um we we were running a b program
for for several years and we we did that
in two ways one I would spec out things
that I thought would be interesting to
launch on the eoric Chain um which would
be sort of small contracts that could be
modular functionality that other people
could use um or we did what we were
calling reverse bounties where we would
talk with builders that would come into
our social spaces that wanted to do
something um and a lot of those ideas
were things we didn't think of ourselves
but were highly relevant and so we would
then work with them to turn that into
Bounty that we would pay and our our
basic view is that bounties are tend to
be the most effective way to onboard
Builders into the ecosystem that that
has been where we've really seen success
because what it does is it gives people
a reason to actually dive in and start
to build something and you know some
percentage of people will will see the
platform and see how it's built and and
say okay this isn't for me for whatever
reason some percentage of people will
look at it and say oh my God I can't
imagine building a decentralized
application anywhere else and they will
just fall down the oric Rabbit Hole um
and go into Zoe and all the things that
we we haven't really gotten to and so
bounties are are a really great way to
do that that program is going to get
restarted focused on orchestration um
sometime in Q2 likely um and we also
expect to have a grants program with a
similar Focus um which is probably more
extensive than bounties um and so yeah
you know I I think what we've seen from
other ecosystems is that giving giving a
team $10 million to build something big
doesn't really work super well um what
you really want to do is say okay let's
do something smaller and do a bunch of
those and have folks build things that
you know see that they are personally
interested in and would want to run you
know you said the word entrepreneur
which I think is a really important
thing in this space right like it's it's
one thing to kind of build a a a hobby
project it's another thing to say Okay I
want to actually deploy this and I want
I want users I want to deal with the
pain of them complaining on a weekend I
want I'm going to wake up on Sunday
because my UI is busted or something
along those lines like that takes a
certain kind of mindset and so we want
to find those folks that that see
opportunities and want to take them on
and want to be big want to be owners of
the thing that they're that they're
building and so that's where bounties I
I think end up being very useful versus
large ecosystem grants that tend to kind
of attract mercenaries that that
basically want the pay out and then you
know they'll move on to the next
ecosystem and you know that's not as
interesting yeah um I firsthand
experienced those issues with
Distributing grants seeing a bare
minimum project MVP get delivered and
then uh poof goes the team um I
think I probably know what the answer to
this will be but um I want to thank you
for your time for for spending an hour
with us uh who are the folks that you
want reaching out to you and what's the
best way that they can contact you yeah
uh so on you know we want Builders we
want orchestration builders that that
you know if you're if you're a developer
and you have some JavaScript experience
and you see a a ux multi-chain challenge
or an opportunity um and where I want
you to think about those opportunities
is how you could link together assets or
capabilities across multiple chains in a
way that doesn't exist if you see those
kinds of opportunities and you want to
know where to build it it's a Gore and
and so come find us you know we are sort
of composability for the multichain
that's what a gor orchestration will
give you um find us in Discord you know
I in there regularly you can you can at
me um you know we've got deal team that
can help we've got Engineers that can
help um and our priority is really
helping folks build these these
cross-chain and multi-chain apps that we
think are going to be the future of
blockchain um and so if you think that's
you you know we're we're easy to find um
and we should be the best place for you
to build that thing awesome Roland um
when I saw Dean talk about chain
abstraction it just kind of blew my mind
um at Adam Denver and so I was really
excited to have this conversation and it
did not disappoint um so yeah thanks
again for sharing the past hour with us
it was a pleasure um and I hope that
folks uh go choose to learn more about
agoric all right thanks very much D well
what did you think of that conversation
I thought it was super fascinating to
delve into the concept of chain
abstraction and making any cross chain
operation super simple for the end user
it was also really interesting to learn
more about AG gor's vision of stable
coins both USD backed and over
collateralized and how they'll fit into
the overall ecosystem and I just really
enjoyed learning more about Roland's
perspective on the developer landscape
and how blockchain developers are no
longer hamstrung into building in a
particular ecosystem but can choose
which network to build on top of based
on the tools and accessibility that the
various ecosystems offer to keep up to
date with the smart economy podcast head
over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if
you've liked the guests that we've had
on the show please don't hesitate to hit
that thumbs up button to give us a
review and to give us a rating every
review and rating helps us get in front
of more people's eyes and ears and of
course if you're a Neo token holder
please consider voting for Neo news
today as your Council representative
we've proudly been serving the Neo
ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
Council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives with all
that said thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast and we look forward to catching
you next time